# Civrush: rush to rebuild civilization

> **WARNING** Purely concept phase

Civrush is an open source MMO RPG with rogue like elements for both the
players and the world itself. Worlds (public or private) are randomly
generated, birthing players into what is known as an "Oasis." The Oasis
is a relative safe-zone where players can explore the environment without
being able to harm eachother (harming a player causes you to take significant
damage). Outside the Oasis (which is very small) is the rest of the world.

The world is in ruin and has become infested with a mutant life form known as
the Growth who are similar to the Zerg from starcraft. They build, adapt and
react to human resistence. Scattered throughout the environment are resources
such as food, weapons, medical supplies and technology. Included in the
technology are various pieces of Civboots (self-replicating factories) as well
as robots, computers, parts, etc.

Players can fight eachother and the Growth. They can collect resources, mine,
repair, build, and farm. They can also _program_ robots so their robots do this
work for them. Civrush is unique in that the only way to have robots do your
dirty work is if you write real programs for the computer / robot units
throughout the world (on your computer) and then program robots/computers
inside the world with them. Note: the world's computers run _very_ slowly,
between 100-2000 (web assembly) operations per second.  With specific hardware
elements they can have improvments made like "vision categorization" (doesn't
just have the pixelated world but instead categorizes and provides coordinates
for items within vision), etc which can significantly improve how the robots
function on limited resources.

Also, robot CPU power, known as "clicks" is the only resource which (typically)
must be purchased. A single 1000Hz CPU costs about 10 cents per day to run
continuously (although it can also downscale/sleep), with CPU power being
purchaseable via a UI and bought/sold within the in-game economy. In fact, CPU
power IS the ingame currency and is known as a "Lick" shorted sometimes to lk.
1 lk can purcase a single CPU instruction. Obviously this is extremely cheap,
so players will typically do trades in units of KilaLicks (Klk), MegaLicks
(Mlk) or GigaLicks (Glk).

Players can form formalized groups to have easier communication and sharing of
resources. Fundamentally, the world is completely open however. Anyone can
destroy, steal, or kill anyone else. Groups have some advantages, like being
able to set up "clone centers" for being reborn within the group's territory
(rather than back at a random Oasis), but these require high technology and are
very expensive. Users can also share/sell world maps, either publicly or with
their group. Note that when a user dies they start clean over as a new clone.
Clones do not have "experience" or "ability" points, the "power" of a player is
determined by their equipment and their own ability to play the game.

There are two ways the world can end. As players conqure more and more of the
territory from the Growth, the Growth responds by becoming smarter and more
adaptive. As it looses ground it produces more fighters, maneuvers smarter and
creates more powerful and dynamic warriors. Even if players _don't_ take land,
the Growth will keep pounding away, eventually destroying Oasis's if the
resistence isn't strong enough. When all Oasis's and players are destroyed the
world comes to an end.

If the players do put up a strong enough fight they can exterminate the Growth
completely. This causes the game to end and a new world to be respawned, this
time with an even harder Growth but more experienced players with better and
more efficient robot programming in their hands.

